# MCU - Microcontroller Unit
Is a small computer on a single metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS) integrated circuit (IC) chip.
A microcontroller contais one or more CPUs along with memory and programmable input/output periphericals.

## ATmega168
16k Flash memory.
8 bits.

## CPU
Processor cores.

## EEPROM
Slow to write.
There is not to much.
Nonvolatile.
Is byte-wise erasable.
Are seldom rewritten.
Used when only small amounts ate needed.

## Flash memory (16k)
Store compiled code.
Nonvolatile.
Is just one type of EEPROM.
Is block-wise erasable.
Constantly rewrttten.
Used when large amounts are needed.

## RAM or SRAM (RAM == DRAM)
Store temporary variables.
Volatile.


## Clocks
There are multiple clocks that are all derivated from the same commom timebase.
Internal RC oscillator (resistor-capacitor) as the master clock source.
It runs around 8 MHz.
The CPU clock is then divided down from the master clock, and runs at 1 MHz by default.

## Outputs
Digital.
Supply voltage level, VCC or GND.
If the voltage applied externally to the pin is greater than half the supply voltage, the chip sets a bit in an internal variable to one.

## Analog (doesn't have)
PWM (pulse width modulation), switching the digital pin state vary rapidly between high and low voltages so the average voltage is somewhere in the middle.

## Flash programmer
Is a device that allow us to program the flash memeory of a microcontroller.
By program, we mean we can transfer a program which we have written and compiled and send it the microcontroller for the microcontroller to execute the program.

## Interrupts

## Timers/counters

## ISP - In System Programming
An ISP header is typically a six-pin, 2x3 header, although some designs use eight-pin, 2x4 header. There are even some designs that use a ten-pin, 2x5 header. 
An ISP header provides a standardized interface for carrying programming signals from an external programmer to a chip.

## Pins
MISO (Master In Slave Out) - The slave line for sending data to the master.
MOSI (Master Out Slave In) - The master line for sending data to the peripherials.
SCK (Serial Clock) - The clock pulses, which synchronize data transmission generated by the master and one line specific for every device.
SS (Slave Select) or RESET - The pin on each device that the master can use to enable and disable specific devices.

When the RESET pin is at a postive voltage (the same voltage as VCC) the chip runs the program, when the RESET pin is at ground (the same voltage as GND) then the chip stops and listens for programming instructions on the programming pins.
